# Introduction

## Background

Buying furniture is always annoying. Measuring size, choosing a style, considering the functions, going to a furniture shop, etc. If there is an application fulfilling all these needs, buying furniture will be more convenient. The technique which can best solve this problem is Augmented Reality (AR). 

AR refers to adding virtual information to the user's sense and the user is in the real world. This technique can be traced back to the late 1960s. In 1968, Ivan Sutherland, who was a professor at Harvard University, constructed a 3D head-mounted display device with his colleagues. Wearing this device would project the information generated by the computer along with the real objects onto the wall. From the 1980s to the 1990s, only a few institutions researched AR, such as the US Air Force Armstrong Laboratory, the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, the University of North Carolina, etc. In 1992, Louis Rosenburg from the US Air Force Armstrong Laboratory created the first real operational augmented reality system, Virtual Fixtures. This system could be known as an early version of AR systems today. Later, as hardware costs fell, more research and applications about AR appeared.

Nowadays, AR has already been widely used in different areas, such as car manual, Google Glass, games, and even construction work. AR is a future trend in Information Technology, and it makes our life better, so I choose to incorporate this technique with furniture buying.

## Motivation

The idea of this project is inspired by IKEA Place which is a currently available application designed by famous furniture company IKEA. This application lets the users virtually place their products in an empty space. But this application has a problem. The virtual objects placed into the live camera scene do not look realistic enough. Therefore, in this project, I will try to apply lighting and physically based rendering in the AR application to insert more realistic looking virtual objects into the live camera scene.

## Objective

The purpose of this project is to develop a mobile AR application called "Funiture", which assists the users to buy furniture. The name "Funiture" puts two words together, which are "Fun" and "Furniture". It means this application can provide the users a funny experience of buying furniture. It allows the users to:

- place more realistic looking virtual 3D furniture into the real environment
- interact with the virtual 3D furniture placed into the live camera scene by transformation, enlargement, reduction and rotation.
- search for suitable furniture in more advanced ways, by measurement of the real world and by type of plane

With the functions mentioned above, the users can place the virtual 3D furniture they want and enjoy a more realistic view. They can interact with the virtual 3D furniture, so the AR experience will be more interesting. They can enjoy a more advanced searching process, so the searching result can be more considerate.


